.TH FNORD 1 "Mar 21 1991"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
fnord \- visualization of mathematics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PU
.ll +8
.B fnord
[
.I Xt options
]
.sp
.B xmfnord
[
.I Xt options
]
[ 
.I filename
] ...
.sp
.B xfnord
[
.I Xt options
]
[ 
.I filename
] ...
.sp
.B ttyfnord
[ 
.I filename
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fnord
is a system for visualizing mathematics.  The user describes
mathematical objects such as curves and surfaces; the program computes
and displays them.
.PP
Descriptions of objects may depend upon the values of interactive
widgets; when the widgets are changed by the user the objects are
updated in real time.
.PP
The language includes symbolic operations such as differentiation and
higher-order functions, thus powerful mathematical operators such as
differential geometry's first and second fundamental forms may be
easily implemented in terms of language primitives.
.PP
See the manual in doc/manual for complete documentation.
.PP
There are several versions of the executable.
.B ttyfnord
works in a glass tty and does no graphics.
.B xfnord
uses X and Xt for graphics output.
.B xmfnord
uses X, Xt, and Xm (Motif) for graphics input and output.
.B fnord
is the same as
.B xmfnord
but it does some convenience wrapping.
.B xfnord, xmfnord,
and
.B fnord
all recognize the standard Xt command line options.
.B ttyfnord, xfnord,
and
.B xmfnord
take a list of files on the command line to be read by the
interpreter.  The special name "stdin" indicates reading from
stdin.
.PP
There is also a gnu-emacs mode for editing and running fnord programs;
it isn't very good at formatting code, but its execution facilities
are quite useful.
.SH BUGS
On monochrome systems,
.B fnord
always draws in black, so if you're background is also black, you will
see nothing.
.sp
The text editor widget does not work on the sun3.
.sp
Developement was done on a sun4, other systems will probably be pretty
shaky.
.sp
See the manual in the doc directory.
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Draves (spot@cs.cmu.edu).
.sp
Nick Thompson (nix@sgi.com) and Matthew Stone (mas@cs.brown.edu) also
contributed; see the manual.
